In addition to "apt_pkg" and "apt_inst" (that are thin wrappers around
the c++ libapt code) a new python module "apt" is provided since version
0.6.13 of python-apt.

It is a more python like interface to work with libapt (it uses apt_pkg
internally). Although there are already applications written against the new
apt python interface the API may change in the future and should not be
considered stable. If in doubt, please contact deity@lists.debian.org.

WARNING !!! The API is not 100% stable yet !!!


Style Guides:
-------------

Follow PEP08.

Internal variables/methods are prefixed with a "_" (e.g. _foo).




Channel Definition
------------------

The .info files allow to specify a set of default channels that is available
in the dialog "add channel". The .info file whose name corresponds to the
LSB release name is used, e.g. 'Ubuntu.info' on a Ubuntu system.

Furthermore all .info files are used to render the channels presented in the
sources list more user friendly.


Tags
----

Suite:           the name of the dist used in the repository

MatchSuite:      mainly used for cdroms. defaults to Suite

ParentSuite:     the channel only appears as a component of the parent suite in
                 the add dialog
                 the components/sections of the suite correspond to the ones of
	         the parent suite. specified components of the suite itself
		 are ignored
	
Available:	 determs the availabilty of the suite in the add dialog.
                 defaults to False

RepositoryType:  does the repository contain binary or source packages

BaseURI:         the base URI of the repository

MatchURI:        used for identifing mirrors

Description:     description of the suite. the translation is done through
                 gettext at runtime

Component:       a component/section of the suite (ignored if ParentSuite is
                 set)

CompDescription: humand readable description of the component/section
                 (ignored if ParentSuite is set). the translation is done
		 through gettext at runtime

ValidMirros:     A file that contains a list of mirrors



This package is maintained in bzr and it should be build
with:
$ bzr-buildpackage --native

Python-apt is a wrapper to use features of apt from python.

It contains the following modules:

C++ Wrapper:
------------
apt_pkg - access to libapt-pkg (wrapper to the lowlevel c++ code)
apt_inst - access to libapt-inst (wrapper to the lowlevel c++ code)

Python module:
--------------
WARNING: the API of this module is not stable yet

apt - high level python interface build on top of apt_pkg, apt_inst


