This is a simple note taking applciation using django python framework. Demonstrates the basic CRUD operations. 

This is a simple flask application, that performs CRUD operations. 

        1. make a virtualenv
            2. ``pip install -r requirements.txt``
                3. ``python manage.py initdb``
                    4. ``python manage.py runserver``

the documentation is available at blog.fruiapps.com

This is a simple notes application using the pyramid python framework. It demonstrtes the basic CRUD operation.

In this project i have tried to make a similar application using
different full stack python framework. It was a good exercise to make
the same stuff in different frameworks, it helped me realize few of
the good and bad parts of each of the framework and how one compares
from the other. 

I have tried to include all the popular full stack python framewors viz. Django,
TurboGears, Web2py, Webapp2 and Pyramid. The beginner/intermediate
python developer might find this repo useful to get started with any
of the framework, whereas the advanced/experienced developer might
want to compare features from the different python framework via quick
code skimming. 

The detail of the apps:
All of them have the same database schema:
Table Note.
note title, note description, note subject, note author and date. 

The functionality: You can perform CRUD operations. 
User Authentication and Authorization was one extension that i could
have done in all the apps, but i wanted to keep it very simple for the
beginner. 

There might be few things that could have been done better, since i am
not very experienced with all the frameworks, in case you might want
to suggest improvements you may raise issues/ submit small patch. 

If you want any other framework to be considered you may send pull
request and/or raise tickets. 

The documentation to most of them could be found at blog.fruiapps.com 

This is a simple tutorial for turbogears mvc application. 

